# eliottmendoza.github.io

my own personal website

So I had many a rough start.
Simply getting the .html site to upload was some hassle. I decided to make a new GitHub account with my own personal email rather than school email. I figured out all over again how to make a repository that ran as a website. Easy, just had to follow some steps. But I figured out and learned my limitations (i.e. what I could call the repository and the webpage and whatnot).

I thought it would be simple enough to have my website be called eliottmendoza.github.io. Surely, with my own name makes it easier. I tried elmendoza, but that didn't work (it was already taken). elmendoza makes it easier for other people who don't know how to spell my name, but it's whatever.

I spent a lot of time figuring out how to lay out the home page. I was having some frustrations with the texts and image not appearing where I expected them to appear, but when I let go and did research this helped. Shoutout to [w3schools](https://www.w3schools.com/) for all the resources they have. This was the most clear resource I could find for all my needs.

I cropped the photo of my face a while to get it to just be my face in the picture so it really pops and people really know this is my website. And it gets the message across humorously.

I kept using .html and .css at first for all my needs. This was all I needed to get all the elements on the page placed properly. I chose Andale Mono as the font for it all because I love that font. Mono font that looks like computer code I am in love with. But then I chose Chalkduster for the text telling people to ask for poem because it's fun and fits with the humorous nature of the site.

Once I felt quite comfortable with the way all the text was placed along with the image, I thought it a good idea to have all my social media links on the bottom for easy access. I spent some time finding the right logos to use. Shoutout to [Icons8](https://icons8.com/icons) for some awesome icons. Getting the dimensions right, the size and spacing and margins and padding and all that, spent a lot of time. The stuff that the internet can easily tell me (i.e. linking a hyperlink to an image) was easy. After much time fiddling around with the spacing and learning the difference between margin and padding and border, I got the hang of it and found a comfortable place for it. I linked my own accounts to the images.

I then graduated to using javascript. I wanted the text to type out, as if it were loading or someone were typing it out. This took about an hour of research. Shoutout to [stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/) for providing a place to host forums for open discussion about coding and all. This is where I found a way to get the text to type out. I couldn't get the organization the way I wanted it, where it would type out what I had typed in the .html file. I had to put the text in the .js file. I'm sure there's a way, but I couldn't find anything online before I decided to move on because it's not a big deal. I tried also figuring out how to get the different texts to type out at different times, but this wasn't working either. I decided that it looked good regardless, and I like it!

Oh goodness... then came the sizing for mobile devices. I spent hours and hours trying to figure out how to get the dimensions right, even with the page adjusting to the dimensions of the device. I had to basically reposition all the elements on the page. I rearranged the lines of code for all the elements, placing the image closer to the top and placing the chalkduster text within the same <div> that allows it to reposition a little bit. I rearranged the margins for the texts. I reformatted the footer, putting it into an actual footer container for easier manipulation. This took several days.

In the meantime, I was also moving onto the next page: the music page, which I later renamed videos because it's really just videos on YouTube. After I got the positioning of the text how I wanted it on this page, I looked up how to get a YouTube video to play on the website. This was easy! Using iframe, I could link the YouTube video to a player on the webpage. I started uploading a YouTube video. At first upload, I was happy! And I linked it and all (although I was confused at first because I didn't understand that you don't just copy and paste the link to the YouTube video on YouTube; you copy and paste the little code that is attached to the end of the link to another type of link). Once the YouTube video was linked, I thought to make changes to the video, mostly just bringing up the levels of the audio with a limiter to get the audio overall louder. I made a new video, deleted the old video, and uploaded the new one. Great!

Then came uploading more YouTube videos. I spent quite some time on this, to get the descriptions on the video to be what I wanted, to remaster the videos somewhat so they were generally louder. I uploaded 4 videos all at once and linked them all to my website. I like that you can see the dates for when I created the video in a timeline sort of way, and the formatting on my webpage is better than on YouTube for what I want, so this showcases my work a lot more the way I want to.

Linking the first video was the biggest curve, and from there linking the rest of the videos was pretty easy (and formatting and placing the date and all). Yay! I got what I wanted!

Ok, now came putting my phone number on the webpage. This part I wanted to be careful about. I wanted the phone number to appear in a little window that pops up when you click on the phone logo. I looked up phone logos on icons8, of course, and looked up window pop-up on w3schools and got all I needed. Well, the pop-up windows page led me to Modals, which is really what I needed. Making the modal happen just required me copying and pasting some code, including .js, .css and .html. I linked it all to the image of the phone pretty easily! Then came customizing the modal a little bit and adding the phone number to the modal. Since I already became quite familiar with .css and .html, this part was quite layed out for me. I made the phone number all text and formatted funkily so it can't be stripped by bots.

The last thing I really wanted to do was add a page with poetry on it. So I made a new .html file, called it poetry, copied the html code I had from the index.html file, and started changing it up. It was at this point I got a little pickier with the margins for the navigating section of the page (where it says home, videos, poetry). There was a padding that I didn't want, so I just got rid of it.

I made the page, went to sleep, and got to working on it the next morning. I initially wanted each poem to pop up as a little window (like the phone number) but I soon realized this would be a lot. It would be a lot easier to just have it open as another tab, so I resorted to this after fucking around and finding out. I did a similar thing as with the videos: I added dates. The dates are important to me: I want people to know when these things happened. I added links and formatted the color of the links and underline so that it stands out from the other links at the top to navigate. I figured it all out, added more poems, and bam! I just about have the layout for everything I wanted.

At the very end I thought to add images to each of the pages just so things aren't so boring. Add a little image that fits what the page is about. So I got to editting some photos and added them in the same place the big face was floating but on the other pages. Yay, I'm happy with what I ended up with! Although this is just the beginning... I will continue uploading more stuff to this website. And I will post blogs. And I will make a web synth for anyone to use. It will be even more super cool than it is now. This is the inception of a new chapter.

-el mendoza
